Hello and welcome back to the course on Tablo in today's tutorial we will look at what special falls
are and how we are able to connect to them.
In Tabula Jones is all that you are not an expert if you are.
Feel free to take a short break sit back and enjoy the presentation not the audio of his tutorial is
not to make you an expert on special falls but at least to be able to know your way around the different
types and how to use them now.
Tablo allows us to connect to four different types the first being shaped falls.
We also have map info tables keyhole markup language or camel and the Jason fault.
Let's have a closer look at sheepfolds However now sheepfolds was developed by the environmental System
Resource Institute and is one of the more widely used types with in-shape falls.
We have a few Menary falls that needs to be included in the package.
Firstly we've got the SH pre-fall which is the shape format the SH X your shape index format and your
D-B for that which is your attribute format.
Now we don't need to know the details of these fields or these files but at least be aware that all
three of these needs to be present in our structure are in our folder to be able to use it with in tabular.
Now they might also be some additional information that is supplied with the fall.
And it can be any of these fall types.
But as a minimum be sure that all three of those files are required to be used with entablature.
Now we have a similar pattern on the map tables where we have four different fall types which are required.
There are also a couple of alternative falls and before came out and Jason we just have one required
follow up to be able to use this with Tobler.
Now working with Matt since we know they are three different types and some of the these might seem
familiar from earlier on in the course.
The first top is the polygon map which is also referred to as the fold map where we have polygons depicting
the shape and the outline of a specific area on the map.
And then we can use our Minchin's images to color those the whole polygon.
Then we also have a point map where we actually use the latitude and longitude points within a map to
point out where certain things are located.
And we can reach that obviously with our dimensioned as measures in terms of color and sizing and a
few other attributes.
Lastly we have the line map which connects different points on your map to be able to show direction
or actual distances between points on your map.
Now we also know that Tablo has some built in geographic roles that we can work with the things are
below and we can define these as Sydie country or state zip codes as well.
We even have airports and some other area codes that we can use.
But these are also quite limiting.
And they might also be the occasional time when you might need to use Geographic roles outside of what's
available with Tablo.
Examples of these might be school districts dams or parks where we need that spatial data now from Tablo
ten point two onwards.
Tablo has made it possible for us to connect directly to custom spatial falls to draw the shapes out
on the maps but these are obviously limited to the Four Tops which we have just referred to.
So how does this work.
Now it's very easy.
You just need to obtain the spatial falls from an authority or an open data platform.
And this could also be from some of your cities or local government institutions that generally supply
a vast number of these different shaped falls and what we need to ensure the is that we do have the
required fields for the tops that are being supplied.
So once we have we are connecting to those Tablo we'll then analyze the falls and make the files available
to be used with intaglio Tablo basically transform the Falls using the latitude and longitude information
and creates a very important new field which we haven't seen before is the geometry field and the geometry
field basically acts as an alias for the underlying data that is able to draw the lines or points or
polygons even on maps.
So generally the ashfall that are supplied by these institutions also contain additional information.
So when you are looking for specific data we'll have a look when you connect to the special falls.
What else is available in there for analysis before searching for it on any other platform.
Now the data that we are looking at for this specific case was obtained from the New York City open
door to our platform.
And if I just open up the folder you'll see that we have four falls in there.
Firstly we have the D-B a fall the shape fall and the Ice Age fall.
Lastly we also have the DOJ which has additional information.
But as we know we at least have the three mandatory falls that we need to use the special files or other
the shape falls for the specific format.
But this opens up and see how it works in practice.
So we'll start off by adding a your data source.
And again we just look at our data source types and we can just select the special fall when we go to
or when we navigate to or follow up.
You'll see that tableaus and looking what it looks for the couple of times.
But we have the Scheifele and that's what we'll select to connect there and immediately Tablo connect
to it.
And trawls through all of the information that's within these contained within these falls.
So what's important for us is in this specific case will be the name field or the name 3:01 one which
you will remember but later the barrer in which it is getting back to the case study we need to do something
with the bar and lastly that geometry.
There will be some cleanup necessary here but this is the important field that we spoke about that contains
And we know what kind of shape or what kind of point will be drawn.
And we know that this is the alias that connects it to the information in the background to know how
to draw this the latitude and longitude because you'll do you'll notice that that all that information
is not captured in here.
All right.
Just to see what it looks like will just open up a new sheet and go look for the geometry measure over
there.
Once you drag that into your map immediately it draws all of the different parts as one object.
By the way so let's quickly put in that name into detail to make them individual bigger.
And you can see all of the different parks and public spaces within New York.
It will be drawing and you can see the Central Park which we need to exclude for our case study and
all of them.
And if you scroll in as well you can see how the shapes are exactly the same as the actual parks within
the city.
So quite a lot of public spaces and public parks with in New York City.
And that was it for this lecture in the next the Tauriel will be connecting this special falls to our
PTF data in preparation to solve the business challenge inching our way forward to the final result.
I look forward to seeing you the next time.
Until then happy analyzing.